In 1995, Russian undercover agents, super-soldier
Alexei Shostakov and Black Widow Melina Vostokoff,
pose as a normal family in Ohio
with their surrogate daughters
Natasha Romanoff and Yelena Belova. When the
mission to steal S.H.I.E.L.D. intel is complete,
the family escapes to Cuba and rendezvous with
their boss, General Dreykov, who has Natasha
and Yelena taken to the Red Room for training.
Years pass, and Alexei is imprisoned in Russia,
while Natasha defects to S.H.I.E.L.D. after
bombing Dreykov's Budapest office, apparently
killing him and his young daughter Antonia.
In 2016, Natasha is a fugitive for violating
the Sokovia Accords. She escapes from U.S.
Secretary of State Thaddeus Ross and flees
to a safehouse in Norway supplied by Rick Mason.
Meanwhile, Yelena kills a rogue former Black Widow
but comes in contact with a synthetic gas that
neutralizes the Red Room's chemical mind-control
agent. Yelena sends the antidote to Natasha hoping
that she will return to help Yelena free the other
Widows. When Natasha unknowingly drives off with
the antidote, she is attacked by Taskmaster,
who is after it. Natasha manages to escape
Taskmaster and realizes that the antidote
came from Yelena. The two reunite in Budapest,
where Natasha learns Dreykov is alive and the
Red Room is still active. Shortly after, they are
attacked by Black Widows, and Natasha and Yelena
evade the Widows and Taskmaster before meeting
Mason, who supplies them with a helicopter.
Natasha and Yelena break Alexei out of prison to
learn Dreykov's location. He tells them to speak
with Melina, who lives on a farm outside Saint
Petersburg, where she developed the chemical mind
control process used on the Widows. There, Yelena
reveals that while they were not a real family,
she believed they were so. Melina admits she sent
their location to Dreykov, whose agents arrive and
take them to the Red Room, an aerial facility.
Melina and Natasha use face mask technology
to switch places before being captured, allowing
Melina to free Alexei and Yelena from their
restraints. Meanwhile, Natasha confronts Dreykov,
who sees through her disguise. Natasha learns
Taskmaster is Antonia, who suffered damage so
severe that Dreykov had to put a chip in her head,
turning her into the perfect soldier, capable
of mimicking the actions of anyone she sees,
including several Avengers. Natasha attempts
to kill Dreykov but fails to harm him due to a
pheromone lock installed in every Widow. Dreykov
reveals that he controls Widows worldwide via his
desk console. Natasha intentionally breaks
her nose, severing a nerve in her nasal
passage to negate the pheromone, and then
attacks Dreykov. Alexei battles Taskmaster,
while Melina takes out one of the facility's
engines, and Yelena searches for the other Widows,
who are sent to protect Dreykov. Together,
Alexei and Yelena lock Taskmaster in a cell.
Dreykov escapes as the Widows attack Natasha, but
Yelena creates an antidote bomb that releases the
Widows from the mind control. Natasha gets into
the control desk and copies the locations of the
other Widows worldwide as the facility begins
to explode and fall. Natasha retrieves the two
surviving vials of the antidote and frees
Taskmaster from the locked cell. Melina and
Alexei escape via a plane just as Yelena takes out
Dreykov's helicopter, killing him. Natasha gives
Yelena a parachute before battling Taskmaster in
freefall. After landing, Natasha uses the antidote
on Taskmaster, freeing her from servitude.
The freed Widows arrive as Yelena, Melina, and
Alexei say goodbye to Natasha. She gives Yelena
the last antidote vial and the portable drive,
telling her to find and free the other,
still mind-controlled, Widows. As they
leave with Antonia, Natasha awaits Ross and
his men, who have arrived to apprehend her.
Two weeks later, Natasha reunites with Mason,
who supplies her with a Quinjet. She leaves,
intending to free the imprisoned Avengers.
In a post-credits scene set after Natasha's death,
Yelena encounters Contessa Valentina Allegra de
Fontaine at Natasha's grave. De Fontaine assigns
Clint Barton, whom she claims is responsible
for Natasha's death, as Yelena's next target.